Add guideline around late variables and boolean flags. (#3023)
dart-lang/site-www: src/_guides/language/effective-dart/usage_migrated.md

{% endprettify %}

### AVOID `late` variables if you need to check whether they are initialized.

Dart offers no way to tell if a `late` variable
has been initialized or assigned to.
If you access it, it either immediately runs the initializer

> if it has one or throws an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(if it has one) or throws an exception.
```

> Sometimes you have some state that is lazily initialized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you have some state that's lazily initialized
```

> where `late` would be a good fit,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where `late` might be a good fit,
```

but you also need to be able to *tell* if the initialization has happened yet.

> You could do that by storing the state in a `late` variable
> and then have a separate boolean field
> to track whether the variable has been set.
> This works, but is redundant since Dart *internally*
> still needs to maintain the initialized status of the `late` variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you could detect initialization by storing the state in a `late` variable
and having a separate boolean field
that tracks whether the variable has been set,
that's redundant because Dart *internally*
maintains the initialized status of the `late` variable.
```

Instead, it's usually clearer to make the variable non-`late` and nullable.

> Then you can check the variable for `null` to see if it has been initialized.

Reviewer: Might be nice to have `null` at the end of the paragraph, so it's easier to pick out.

```suggestion
Then you can see if the variable has been initialized
by checking for `null`.
```

> (Of course, if `null` is a valid initialized value for the variable,
> then it does make sense to have a separate boolean field.)

Reviewer: I thought a separate paragraph might make this a little more scannable.

```suggestion

Of course, if `null` is a valid initialized value for the variable,
then it probably does make sense to have a separate boolean field.
```
